# Setup

## Table of Contents

- [Setup](#setup)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [RPC Providers](#rpc-providers)
    - [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
    - [Software Requirements](#software-requirements)
  - [Setting Up the Server](#setting-up-the-server)
    - [1. Rent or Use Your Own Server](#1-rent-or-use-your-own-server)
    - [2. SSH into Your Linux Machine](#2-ssh-into-your-linux-machine)
    - [3. Create a Directory for the Bot](#3-create-a-directory-for-the-bot)
    - [4. Install `wget`](#4-install-wget)
    - [5. Download the Latest Release of NotArb](#5-download-the-latest-release-of-notarb)
    - [6. Uncompress Downloaded File](#6-uncompress-downloaded-file)
    - [7. Verify Installation](#7-verify-installation)
    - [8. Grant Execution Permissions](#8-grant-execution-permissions)
    - [9. Run the Bot](#9-run-the-bot)
  - [Navigating the Bot and Jupiter in a Screen Session](#navigating-the-bot-and-jupiter-in-a-screen-session)
    - [1. Going into a Screen Session](#1-going-into-a-screen-session)
    - [2. Detach from the Screen](#2-detach-from-the-screen)
    - [3. Fully Close the Screen Session](#3-fully-close-the-screen-session)
    - [4. Kill All the Screens](#4-kill-all-the-screens)
    - [5. Multiple Instances of the Same Name?](#5-multiple-instances-of-the-same-name)
  - [Time to Configure!](#time-to-configure)

---

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the NotArb Bot, ensure you have the following:

- RPC Provider
- Linux machine: Either a Virtual Private Server (VPS) or Baremetal (BM)
- SSH Client
- Solana Wallet

### RPC Providers
- **Providers**:
  - **Rift RPC Node**: [Discord Link](https://discord.gg/4DbPbJZ7sR)
  - **Goat Nodes**: [Discord Link](https://discord.gg/goatnodes)
  - **Nodestop**: [Discord Link](https://discord.gg/nodestop)



### Hardware Requirements

  - **Minimum**: 4 Cores CPU, 8GB RAM.
  - **Recommended**: Higher specs for better performance.

### Software Requirements

- **Linux Distribution**: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS or Ubuntu 24.04 LTS.
- **SSH Access**: Ability to SSH into your Linux server.
- **Dependencies**:
  - `wget`
  - `screen`

[^^ Back to Table of Contents ^^](#table-of-contents)

---

## Setting Up the Server

### 1. Rent or Use Your Own Server

- **Recommendation**: Use a VPS or bare-metal server running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.


### 2. SSH into Your Linux Machine

Use your choice of SSH Client to connect to your server.

### 3. Create a Directory for the Bot

```bash
mkdir bot
cd bot
```

### 4. Install `wget` 

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install wget -y
```

### 5. Download the Latest Release of NotArb

Replace the URL with the link to the latest release from [Releases](https://github.com/NotArb/Jupiter/releases).

Example:
```bash
wget https://github.com/NotArb/Jupiter/releases/download/release-0.1.79-alpha/notarb-0.1.79-alpha-unix.tar.gz
```

### 6. Uncompress Downloaded File

```bash
tar -xvzf notarb-0.1.79-alpha-unix.tar.gz
```

### 7. Verify Installation

Ensure the notarb folder is extracted correctly:

```bash
ls
```
You should now see the notarb-unix folder. Go into the directory by:

```bash
cd notarb-unix
```

Ensure all the files are in the notarb-unix directory:
```bash
ls
```
You should see the following files:

- `libs`
- `run-screens.sh`
- `run-bot.sh`
- `bot-config.toml`
- `jupiter-startup-script.sh`
- `jupiter-config.toml`
- `run-jupiter.sh`


### 8. Grant Execution Permissions

```bash
chmod +x *
```

### 9. Run the Bot

To see if everything is working, we can run the bot by running the run-screens.sh script. This will start a screen for NotArb and Jupiter. 

```bash
./run-screens.sh
```

You should see the NotArb bot and Jupiter setting up and starting to run. Confirm by running the following:

```bash
screen -ls
```
[^^ Back to Table of Contents ^^](#table-of-contents)

---

## Navigating the Bot and Jupiter in a Screen Session

To keep the bot running even after closing the terminal, we will use `screen`:

### 1. Going into a Screen Session

To go into the NotArb bot screen
```bash
screen -r notarb
```
or

To go into the Jupiter screen
```bash
screen -r jupiter
```

### 2. Detach from the Screen

Press `Ctrl + A`, then `D`.

### 3. Fully Close the Screen Session

```bash
screen -XS notarb kill
```

Kill the Jupiter Session
```bash
screen -XS jupiter kill
```

### 4. Kill All the Screens
It's time to kill all the screens because the bot is not configured to run properly yet.

```bash
screen -XS notarb kill
```

Kill the Jupiter Session
```bash
screen -XS jupiter kill
```

### 5. Multiple Instances of the Same Name?

If for some reason there are multiple notarb or jupiter screen sessions, you will have to kill the session using their PID. 
Get the list of screen sessions running:

```bash
screen -ls
```
You may see:
```bash
There are screens on:
        1755811.jupiter     (11/04/2024 12:54:21 AM)        (Detached)
        6969696.jupiter     (11/04/2024 12:55:21 AM)        (Detached)
```
If you wanted to kill the latest one with the PID of 6969696, execute the following:

```bash
screen -XS 6969696 kill
```

**Note**: Ensure you don't have multiple screen sessions running the bot simultaneously to prevent failures.

---

[^^ Back to Table of Contents ^^](#table-of-contents)

## Time to Configure!

  **Configuration Customization**: After initial setup, it's time to customize the bot's settings in the next section.
  
[Continue to Configuration](./3.configuration.md)

---
- **Join the NotArb Discord**: [Join our Discord](https://discord.notarb.org/) to learn how to optimize your setup with other users.